# Overview

**TripTracker is a mobile application designed to enhance the experience of exploring a city on foot 
by providing pleasant walking itineraries around interesting spots. 
Record and share your own walking paths, discover paths created by others, connect with your friends, 
and stay updated with trending routes. 
It's the ultimate travel companion that turns every trip into a memorable journey shared with the 
community!**

The TripTracker application's goal is to simplify the way people explore places on foot. By providing 
users with enjoyable walking itineraries around interesting spots, this application ensures that 
users make the most of their trips. The application also allows users to record their own paths as 
they walk. They can upload photos and descriptions of the spots they visit along the way, and when 
saving the path they can add a title and a description to it.

The application also offers a community aspect, as the recorded paths can be shared with other users 
of TripTracker. This way, tourists and locals alike can benefit from the experiences of others and 
discover new places to explore. It is also a social platform where users can look up their friends' 
profiles and start following them. By connecting with their friends, users can easily stay updated 
with the latest paths created by their friends and share their own paths with them.

Users can save the paths they like to easily find them later in their favorites. The itineraries 
added to this folder are automatically downloaded to enable offline access. This way, users can view 
the paths they have saved offline and enjoy their trip without worrying about an internet connection.

In the future, our application will eliminate the need for traditional paper travel guides. With 
TripTracker, discovering a new city becomes effortless. Simply pull out your phone, launch the app, 
and instantly receive personalized recommendations for the best spots around you, tailored to your 
interests. No preparation needed, just immediate, curated advice for the activities you love. 

Every notable point of interest in a city will be highlighted with user-contributed photos and 
enriched with detailed descriptions. You will be able to learn about the architecture, history, and 
fascinating facts, making your exploration both informative and engaging. But points of interest 
aren't limited to monuments. You will also find information about the best bars in town, top local 
snacks, and more. All this with ratings to ensure you don't miss out on anything.

TripTracker will revolutionize the way you explore a city. Whether you're looking for the best 
traditional meals, top-rated bars, nighttime adventures, or the perfect sunrise or sunset spots, 
TripTracker has you covered. Every path is tailored to your interests, and all the information you 
need is right at your fingertips, ready to guide you with a simple tap.