# Analysis of the Situation

The TripTracker application does not have any direct competitor as it is uniquely centered on 
finding pleasant walking itineraries around interesting spots in a city, while providing a community 
functionality. However, there are several applications that offer functionalities similar to the 
TripTracker application, but none of them integrates all these features in one place.

First, **Google Maps** enables users to find walking routes between two points and highlights points 
of interest. However, these routes are often designed to be the fastest to get to the desired point, 
which may result in paths that are not the most enjoyable, as they might pass alongside busy traffic 
roads.

**TripAdvisor** enables users to find relevant places to visit in a city, but this is not the 
primary focus of the application. Moreover, it does not offer the ability to find walking itineraries
around those places.

**Strava** allows its users to share their workout sessions with their friends. However, it is 
mainly used to record sports activities and lacks a focus on tourism and points of interest.

**Traditional Travel Guides**: Physical travel guides provide detailed information about points of 
interest and walking routes. However, they are often bulky, quickly outdated, and lack real-time 
updates. They do not offer personalized itineraries based on user preferences and cannot provide 
interactive social features.

TripTracker combines these various functionalities into a single application, making it more 
convenient and user-friendly. It is specially designed to help users find walking itineraries around 
interesting spots in a city, while also enabling them to share their experiences with their friends. 
The integration of features into one cohesive platform sets TripTracker apart from its competitors.


There are several complementary products in the market that could be integrated with the TripTracker 
application to enhance its functionalities and user experience. For example, **TripAdvisor**, 
**Google Ratings** and **Yelp** provide users with reviews and ratings of restaurants, cafes, and 
other establishments in a city. This information could be integrated into TripTracker to help users 
find good places to eat or drink along their walking itineraries.

Similarly, various applications like **Airbnb**, **Booking.com** and **Expedia** help users handle 
the logistic aspect of their trips, such as finding accommodation and booking flights. Integrating
these applications could help users plan their trips more efficiently and have a seamless experience.

**Instagram** and **Facebook** allows users to share photos and videos of their experiences, which 
could be linked to the TripTracker application to provide visual content of the walking paths and 
points of interest.

By integrating these complementary products, TripTracker could provide an even more enjoyable 
experience for its users, ensuring they have all the information they need to make the most of their 
trip.
