# The Value Proposition

TripTracker offers a compelling value proposition : it enables users to make the most of their trips 
by providing enjoyable walking itineraries around interesting spots in a city. The app combines 
navigation, social interaction, and user-generated content to create a holistic travel companion 
that enhances the way people explore new destinations. By offering a unique combination of features, 
TripTracker stands out from its competitors and provides a defensible value proposition that is 
relevant to the needs of modern travelers.

The value proposition of TripTracker is straightforward and easy to communicate: it helps users find 
walking itineraries around interesting spots in a city, while enabling them to share their 
experiences with friends.

TripTracker's value proposition is defensible because it combines several unique features into one 
platform and no competitor offers the same combination of functionalities. While other applications 
may provide navigation or points of interest, or social sharing, TripTracker integrates all these 
features in a unique and easy-to-use application. 

Additionally, by continuously integrating user 
feedback and improving the app's features, TripTracker can maintain its competitive edge and ensure 
long-term user engagement.

The value proposition is highly relevant as people visiting cities seek meaningful and enjoyable 
experiences. They are looking for ways to find hidden gems and local spots beyond typical tourist 
attractions, and this without any overhead. TripTracker addresses this need by offering curated 
walking paths and the ability to share personal experiences with a community dedicated to exploring.

Furthermore, with the trending functionalities, users can discover new paths and stay updated with 
the latest routes, making the app a valuable tool for both tourists and locals. Additionally, when 
looking for paths, other applications often propose straightforward routes that can be unpleasant as 
they do not take advantage of potential pedestrian areas. 

Moreover, the paths that the TripTracker application proposes to its users have a ranking system: 
the flame count of a path is computed based on the number of users who view the path, the number of 
times the path is added to favorites, and the number of times the path is started. On the main 
screen of the application, the paths are sorted by their flame count, so the most popular paths are 
at the top of the list. This way, users can easily find the most popular paths and the most pleasant 
paths.
