# User Analytics and Acceptance

*Goal: understand how users are using the app.*

The primary goal of user analytics is to understand how users are interacting with the application. 
This includes tracking user behavior, preferences, and engagement metrics to optimize the user 
experience and drive user retention. By analyzing user data, we can identify patterns, trends, and 
areas for improvement to enhance the overall user experience and increase user satisfaction.

*Which are the key metrics?*
The key metrics to track to analyze the success of the application are:

- **The user engagement:** we must track the number of unique users that engage with the app on a 
daily, monthly and yearly basis. This will help us understand how many users are actively using the 
app and how often they are using it. It would also enable us to identify trends in user engagement
over time and make informed decisions about how to improve the app. It would also be interesting to
keep records of the average time a user spends during a session on the application, and how many
sessions a user has per day, week, month and year.

- **The content engagement:** we must track the number of itineraries recorded and shared by users, 
as well as the sharing settings of these itineraries (public, friends only or private). The number 
of points of interest added to the itineraries and the number of photos added to the itineraries
should also be tracked. Tracking the number of itineraries followed by users would also be 
interesting to understand how many users are engaging with the content created by other users. All 
this content engagement data should be considered over different time periods to identify trends and
patterns in user behavior.

- **The social engagement:** we must track the number of users that connect with other users by
following them. To track this aspect we could look at the number of friends addition and the mean 
number of following and follower per user. We should also track the number of times a user's profile
is viewed and the number of times a user's path is added to the favorites. This will help us
understand how users are interacting with each other and how they are engaging with the social
aspect of the app.

- **The user retention:** we must track the number of users that return to the app after their first
visit and the number of users that stop using the app after a certain period of time. This will help
us understand how many users are retained over time and identify areas for improvement to increase
user retention. We must also track the reasons why users stop using the app to identify potential
issues and make necessary changes to improve the user experience and ensure a high level of user
satisfaction.

- **The user satisfaction:** we must track the feedback from users on the app store and other review
platforms to understand how satisfied users are with the app and identify key points that might need
changes, as well as the functionalities that seem to satisfy users the most. 


*What is the success criteria?*

To evaluate the success of the application, we will consider the following criteria:

- **User penetration:** the number of users that have downloaded the application should be of at 
least 1000 users in the first month after the launch of the application, and should increase to 
100,000 users in the first 6 months. This will help us understand how many users are interested in 
the app and how well it is performing in terms of user acquisition.

- **User engagement:** the number of users and the number of itineraries created and followed on a 
monthly basis should be of around 20% of the total number of users. This will help us understand how
many users are actively using the app and how often they are engaging with the content. The average
time a user spends during a session on the application should be of at least 5 minutes, and the
number of sessions a user has per week should be of at least 2. This will help us understand how
engaged users are with the app and how often they are using it.

- **User satisfaction:** the feedback from users on the application and the note on the app store
should be of at least 4 out of 5. This will help us understand how satisfied users are with the app
and identify potential improvements to increase user satisfaction.

- **User retention:** the number of users that return to the app after their first visit should be
of at least 50% in the first month and 70% in the first year. This will help us understand how many
users are retained over time and identify areas for improvement to increase user retention.

- **Partnership:** the TripTracker application should be able to establish at least one partnership
with a major travel or review platform in the first year following the launch of the application. 
This will help us increase the visibility of the app and attract more users to the platform, while 
confirming that the TripTracker concept is relevant and valuable to the travel industry.


*What is the analysis plan (link to data collection)?*

TODO: implement this part


*Include relevant A/B testing ideas.*

TODO: implement this part
